# Applied-Research-in-R
This is a research project that I completed in R as part of an NYU course I took in Spring 2020. In this project, I designed and conducted correlational research on how a manager’s authentic leadership behaviors are able to improve the job satisfaction of their subordinates. Authentic leadership is a new values-based leadership style that has emerged in the past several decades and has been linked to enhanced well-being and job satisfaction in subordinates (Neider & Schriesheim, 2011). According to Walumbwa and colleagues (2008), authentic leaders are aware of their strengths and weaknesses (self-awareness); emphasize open and transparent communication (relational transparency); act in accordance with strong moral values (internalized moral perspective); and consider multiple perspectives when making decisions (balanced processing). However, it is not clear how authentic leadership fuels positive outcomes in organizations (Ilies et al., 2005). This research sought to replicate past findings that manager’s authentic leadership predicts subordinate’s job satisfaction through two paths: directly through the subordinates’s work-life balance and sequentially through the subordinate’s and then the manager’s work-life balance (Braun & Peus, 2018). Additionally, this research proposed a new mediation path whereby a manager’s authentic leadership influences the subordinate’s job satisfaction through perceptions of the manager’s role modeling. To test these mediation relationships, causal mediation effects were estimated in the ‘mediation’ and ‘lavaan’ packages (Rosseel, 2012) in R (see “Analysis Script.R”). This study did not find support for either of the previously-found mediation paths, but it found strong support for the role modeling mediation path such that role modeling explained nearly 90% of the total effect of a manager’s authentic leadership on their subordinate’s job satisfaction. 

# About the supporting data
The supporting data (“Survey Results.xlsx”) are the results of the present study. The study was sent out by means of messaging and posting in online networks (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn). A total of 240 responses were recorded from a convenience sample, but only 168 responses were complete and met the eligibility requirement that the participant be working at least 20 hours/week under someone else’s supervision (i.e., not self-employed). With 95 female participants, the sample was 57.6 % female, and participants were between 20 and 64 years old (M = 27.26, SD = 9.11, Med = 24.00). The participants who met the eligibility requirements first answered a block of questions concerning their direct managers, including perceptions of their managers as authentic leaders, as role models, and finally of their managers’ work-life balance. The next block concerned self-evaluations, including items about the participants’ own work-life balance and job satisfaction. Finally, the participants entered demographic information, including their gender and age. 
In order to measure subjects’ perceptions of their direct managers as authentic leaders, an adapted version of the Authentic Leadership Inventory (ALI) developed and validated by Neider and Schriesheim (2011) was included. Participants’ job satisfaction was measured with Brayfield and Rothe’s (1951) validated index. Subordinates’ Work-Life Balance and managers’ Work-Life Balance were measured with Brough and colleagues’ (2014) Work-Life Balance Scale. Finally, in order to measure subjects’ perceptions of their direct supervisors as role models, an adapted version of Peters and colleagues’ (2018) Role Modeling Scale was used. 

# Instructions to Run
To run the "Analysis Script.ipynb" script, you will need to download the supporting data ("Survey Results.xlsx") as well as install and load several R libraries (QuantPsyc, psych, plyr, readxl, lawstat, stats, agricolae, car, onewaytests, gplots, afex, lsmeans, multcomp, obk.long, data.table, corrplot, polycor, MASS, Hmisc, xtable, tidyr, tibble, dplyr, MASS, mediation, and rcompanion).

## References
- Braun, S., & Peus, C. (2018). Crossover of work–life balance perceptions: Does authentic leadership matter? Journal of Business Ethics, 149(4), 875-893.
- Brayfield, A. H., & Rothe, H. F. (1951). An index of job satisfaction. Journal of Applied Psychology, 35(5), 307–311. 
- Brough, P., Timms, C., O'Driscoll, M. P., Kalliath, T., Siu, O.-L., Sit, C., & Lo, D. (2014). Work-Life Balance Scale [Database record]. 
- Ilies, R., Morgeson, F. P., & Nahrgang, J. D. (2005). Authentic leadership and eudaemonic well being: Understanding leader—follower outcomes. The Leadership Quarterly, 16(3), 373–394. 
- Neider, L. L., & Schriesheim, C. A. (2011). The authentic leadership inventory (ALI): Development and empirical tests. The Leadership Quarterly, 22(6), 1146–1164. Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. (2019). OECD Better Life Index: Work-Life Balance. Retrieved from http://www.oecdbetterlifeindex.org/topics/work-life-balance/
- Peters, K., Steffens, N. K., & Morgenroth, T. (2018). Superstars are not necessarily role models:  Morality perceptions moderate the impact of competence perceptions on supervisor role  modeling. European Journal of Social Psychology, 48, 725–746.
- Rosseel, Y. (2012). lavaan: An R package for structural equation modeling. Journal of Statistical  Software, 48(2), 1–36.
- Walumbwa, F. O., Avolio, B. J., Gardner, W. L., Wernsing, T. S., & Peterson, S. J. (2008).  Authentic leadership: Development and validation of a theory-based measure. Journal of  Management, 34(1), 89–126. 
